---
title: "Erroneous Statistical Reporting"
subtitle: "Amanda Rae"
date: "2017-06-20 12:00:00 CDT"
topic: "week3"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---
 

## 3. What are the human subjects issues raised by this case? Were human subjects harmed and if so, how?


This case was wrongly conducted and reported. Initially the researcher claimed that he gave participants $100 for their input. Later, LaCour confessed to entering participants in a raffle for Apple products. The sponsors that LaCour claimed to have denied giving him any support. I think both of these parties, participants and so-named sponsors, are victims of LaCour’s actions. The participants weren’t compensated as they were reported and their information that they gave wasn’t recorded accurately. The sponsors that he named stated that they didn’t support his study at all. So, therefore he claimed their support without having it. This could be damaging to them in the future. 
I think the most harm was done to those who believed the findings that LaCour claimed to have observed; Such as his mentors and people seeking equality for homosexuals. Since his mentor believed his research to be done ethically, which it wasn’t, now his name and research probably carries less weight than before. As for those seeking equality; they now have much farther to go to repair the damage that LaCour caused by lying about his data and his results. 



## 4. What data management issues does this case raise?

I find it completely ridiculous that LaCour deleted his original data to protect participant identity. He also manipulated it to get the results he desired. He lied about his survey company. In short his reported data was inaccurate and anything he reported was false. He wasted everyone’s time with his incompetence.
His mentor should have been more diligent in checking LaCour’s research. 







