---
title: "Experimental Design for Forensic Methods"
subtitle: "Firstname Lastname"
date: "2017-07-05 23:59:59 CDT"
topic: "week5"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---
 
## Background:

Select one of the forensics methods discussed in [Sections 5.3-5.7](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/PCAST/pcast_forensic_science_report_final.pdf#%5B%7B%22num%22%3A213%2C%22gen%22%3A0%7D%2C%7B%22name%22%3A%22XYZ%22%7D%2C52%2C680%2C0%5D) of the report "Forensic Science in Criminal Courts: Ensuring Scientific Validity of Feature-Comparison Methods", which was issued by the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology in 2016. Read that subsection *thoroughly*, taking note of issues the report identifies for that method.

Outline how you would design an experiment to address one of the issues raised with that method you selected. As you write your description, be sure to address the following:

- What kind of factors would you need to control for, and how would you accomplish that?
- What would be the treatments in your experiment?
- What would the units be?
- What would the responses be? How would you measure those responses?
- How would you utilize randomness within your experiment?
- How would you achieve replication in your experiment?

 
## Instructions (Read carefully, please!!):

Before beginning the new assignment, [update your fork](https://github.com/CSAFE-ISU/REU-blog/blob/master/update_instructions/Update_instructions.md), and pull those changes to your fork down to your computer through RStudio. 

Save a **copy** of this file (in RStudio), replacing "Lastname" in the filename with your own and **leave the original unedited**.

In **your copy**, replace the `title:` and `subtitle:` fields in the YAML above (put your name in the `subtitle` field), while leaving the remaining fields intact. Remove the background and the instructions sections and write your blog post! 

Once you are done, **create a pull request** to upload your changes to the original repository!

**Note**: The date above is the due date and time. Don't edit this field! 

#### Extra, extra!  

Sam and Joe will reject your pull request if it does not comport with the instructions above! 
