---
title: "Week 5a Blog Post"
layout: post
date: "2017-07-05 23:59:59 CDT"
subtitle: Andrew Kimble, III
tags:
- forensics
- statistics
- assignments
root: ../../../
topic: week5
---
 
My experiment for handling with firearms is I would gather 1000 bullets and have 5 sample guns. I would try to eliminate which bullet belonged to each gun by there ejectory marks but also we have to consider with the striation marks that also bullets carry manufacture faults which can also ruin bullet matching from the samples. We can also match these bullets by these different impressions such as a breach face and the firing pin, these also play a huge part in matching these bullets to one of the correct firearms.

In this exeperiment, the randomness will come from these collected 1000 bulles from a country overseas and 3 collected rifles from that same country and the treatments for it, I will have 6 firearm examiners and so that way there will be different methods to helping match these bullets to there rightful guns. And, once the respones come in from this experiment hopefully we get a match saying "yes, this bullet came from this handgun" and "This bullets came from this rifle".

In order to achiecve the sucessful replicated data, we have to consider all our factors and make sure to also put in consideration where was the gun manufactured it can also be help when determining which bullets came from which gun because most likely the bullet will be made by the same manufacture. If the experiment is not done correctly it could create eliminations, inconclusives and false positives. We don't want that we want to be sure our bullet matching is near perfect accuracy so we can pinpoint the correct bullet to the right firearm.



