---
title: "Experimental Design for Forensic Methods"
subtitle: "Kahlil Sample"
date: "2017-07-05 23:59:59 CDT"
topic: "week5"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---


I would collect a designated amount of hair samples from subjects who wish to particpate in my hypothetical experiment. A total of 1000 hair samples would be compiled, 10 hair samples from 100 randomly selected subjects in the state of Georgia. A fixed number of examiners will be chosen to analyze these individual hair samples through a nationally accepted database. Due to the variance in techniques, it would be ideal to recruit the examiners from different crime labs from different regions around the nation. This allows for non-repetition in terms of the analysis of the individual hairs. The treatment in this case would be represented by the hair examiners who are working in the crime lab. The units that are being treated are represented as the individual hairs that are being analyzed. A designated amount of hairs will be taken from random people to determine whether these hairs are a match to those that are entered into the database. The examiners that are hired for analysis will be tasked with examining each hair that is taken from these subjects in order to give a baseline of analysis. This will also confirm that there is no biased opinions within this experiment. The conclusion on whether the hair that is taken from the subject is a match or not is representative of the response. The randomness in this experiment is utilized through the different types of hair from the subjects involved in the design of the experiment. Replication is exhibited through the continual examination of the different hairs by the examiners.
