---
title: "Statistical Approaches to Matching Bullets"
subtitle: "Firstname Lastname"
date: "2017-07-28 17:00:00 CDT"
topic: "week7"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---
 
## Background:

Watch the entire CSAFE webinar (including questions at the end) posted [here](http://forensicstats.org/portfolio-posts/statistical-and-algorithmic-approaches-to-matching-bullets/). (The actual presentation starts about 7 minutes in.) While you are watching, keep in mind the following questions to respond to when you're finished:

1. What data do Hare *et al* use? 
2. In what ways do the methods used by Hare *et al* differ from the "traditional" methods of bullet matching? 
3. How do Hare *et al* use **clustering** to help perform bullet matching tasks? 
4. Identify one statistics and/or probability concept in the presentation that you have not heard of before. Do a little bit of research (Googling/Wikipedia is ok) and try to describe it to someone who doesn't know about it. You should also consult [this paper](bulletmatchingpaper.pdf) to see if there is more detail on your chosen topic than is presented in the webinar. (Hint: Control + F is useful...) You **don't need** to read the whole paper.

Respond to all of these questions in a blog post. Remember, length of response is not as important as how well and how clearly you communicate your well-formed thoughts in the response. Please avoid run-on sentences. The format of the response is up to you: try to put your personal twist on it! This is the last assignment we have for you. Make it your best one yet!

## Instructions (Read carefully, please!!):

Before beginning the new assignment, [update your fork](https://github.com/CSAFE-ISU/REU-blog/blob/master/update_instructions/Update_instructions.md), and pull those changes to your fork down to your computer through RStudio. 

Save a **copy** of this file (in RStudio), replacing "Lastname" in the filename with your own and **leave the original unedited**.

In **your copy**, replace the `title:` and `subtitle:` fields in the YAML above (put your name in the `subtitle` field), while leaving the remaining fields intact. Remove the background and the instructions sections and write your blog post! 

Once you are done, **create a pull request** to upload your changes to the original repository!

**Note**: The date above is the due date and time. Don't edit this field! 

#### Extra, extra!  

Sam and Joe will reject your pull request if it does not comport with the instructions above! 
