---
title: "Week 4b Blog Assignment"
subtitle: "Andrew Kimble, III"
date: "2017-06-27 12:00:00 CDT"
topic: "week4"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---
 


7. What are some of the mentoring issues raised by this case?

 If they had used GitHub, Dr. Green could have been there to see how Michael was doing with the research and he could have made sure that the results haven't been tampered with. It can really be a effective way of communitcating but also a great place to create work and share new ideas. Yes the mentoring could have been much more better if they both were from the same institutions but GitHub could have been a option and could have been much better then just trusting that one person to do all of the work.


11. What are some lessons learned from this case?

 I believe GitHub should have been used from the beginning of this research especially since they are both on opposite sides of the country. Green could have made a repository and Michael can fork his repo and make changes to it so for example he could have forked the research and could have put his results or change anything and once he has done that he would have to create a pull request so that his changes could be merged with the original repo but then Green could view the changes and approve or deny the changes. Green could have made sure the research had honest data and was done correctly if github was apart of this research.


4. What data management issues does this case raise?

GitHub should have been the perfect place for data management. Only if Dr. Green had known what github was this whole research wouldn't have been a lie, Michael could have put his results in a repo and then Green could have looked over them and made sure that they were accurate and if they were not credible he could have asked Michael to also provide the procedure for even finding these results. If Dr, Green could have made the repository for the research he would have had all control of the repo and could allow any edits from the repo to be merged so if Michael gave falsified data Green could have denied those changes and could have seen that something appears to be not right with this research.


5. What are the authorship issues in this case?

Another reason why GitHub should have been used from the beginning. Dr. Green really had no part in conducting the research, he really just slapped his name on the research without him contributing to anything. GitHub has the power to allow what comes into a repository if you did not contribute or help in any way possible you should not be given credit for anything, if github was used the creator of the repo could see the changes done to the repo and has the option to merge the edits or not so if the creator see's that someone slaps their name on the repo as a contributor they can deny that change becasue the creator knows who has helped and who has not.


If you were asked to consult for a research project, how would you recommend the integration of GitHub into the workflow? Assume your collaborators have never used GitHub before. Be sure to also explain briefly *how* it works so they can understand.


How I would recommend the use of GitHub is I would say it is a very resourceful tool especially for sharing new ideas with different people, One great function about it is that you can allow what you want to merge and what you do not want to merge, so if you do not want anyone to tamper with your hardwork or your research you have the the control to not let it enter your repository. If you also want to use someone else's work as a reference to your's, you can fork their repo and it will be added to your's. GitHub really can be a great help for alot of people if it is used correctly.


 
