---
title: "Reproducible Research and GitHub"
subtitle: "Kahlil Sample"
date: "2017-06-27 12:00:00 CDT"
topic: "week4"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---
 
For your two questions, plus one question from each of the two peers you selected, (for a total of **4** questions), discuss the following: 

> In what ways can GitHub (or comprable cloud-based, version controlled, collaborative environments) help address the issues which the questions raise?

Question 4. 
  What data management issues does this case raise?
  One of the main data management issue that arose from this case was the fact that LaCour deleted raw data and falsified other data. The implementation of Github could have undeniably prevented this issue. The owners of the original data would have to accept requested authorization to this data and had this taken place, LaCour would have been caught red-handed in doing his misdeeds. Github in this situation could have prevented a long chain of misconduct and LaCour would have been caught fairly quickly. 


Question 9. 
  This case features a long-distance collaboration between a faculty member and a graduate student. What issues does the case
 raise about collaborating with others?
  Github would have been useful in this situation because distance would not affect the efficacy of this research. Github is an online site and Dr. Green and LaCour could easily have been in synchronization through the repositories that were made. As long as the two were using this site or another collaborative environment consistently, there would have been no issue cause by the distance. 
  

Question 7.
  What are some of the mentoring issues raised by this case?
  This comparable cloud-based environment could solve a mentoring issue fairly easily. Communication would be an easy obstacle to hurdle in pertinence to research with the use of Github. Green would be able to properly oversee the research and the changes being made by LaCour assuming that the mentor did his due diligence in oversight.
  
Question 11. 
  What are some lessons learned from this case? 
  Collaborative environments help address the issues this question raises in a sense that the work could be supervised easily. 


In addition, please respond to the following: 

> If you were asked to consult for a research project, how would you recommend the integration of GitHub into the workflow? Assume your collaborators have never used GitHub before. Be sure to also explain briefly *how* it works so they can understand. 
  If I were asked to consult for a research project, I would recommend the integration of Github into the workflow by first explaining how this site works. Github allows for easy collaboration on a given project through the allowing of multiple authors to request and make changes to a repository. This is useful because one author simply has to make a request access to a specific repository. Once accepted, the person who requested authorization to this repository will be able to either correct mistakes of the original author or makes changes to improve the overall body of work. A final advantage of Github is that this collaborative site is very convenient in terms of the effectiveness of how the changes can be seen by multiple authors through one pull request. 
