---
title: "What is a p-value anyway?"
subtitle: "Sam Tyner"
date: "2017-07-21 17:00:00 CDT"
topic: "week7"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments, week7]
---

## Chapter 13

1. Stating you "provided strong evidence that using the busy road was quickest" is more accurate than stating you "proved that using the busy road was the quickest" because of the hypothesis test you conducted. Your null hypothesis, though you did not state it directly, is that the mean travel times for both routes is the same. In a hypothesis test, we assume the null hypothesis is true, then our evidence tells us whether or not that is a reasonable assumption. The alternative hypothesis was that the busy road is quicker, but you only have information about the null hypothesis. Therefore, you can only say that, when the $p$-value from your hypothesis test was 0.001, you "provided strong evidence that using the busy road was quickest". You cannot prove the alternative hypothesis. 
2. It is true that the $p$-value depends on the value of the difference between the two groups, but the $p$-value also depends heavily on the sample size. When you collected data for two years, you greatly increased your sample size, which led to smaller standard errors of the means of your two groups. The smaller standard errors, in turn, lead to a smaller value of the denominator in the test statistic for the hypothesis test, which leads to a larger, and thus a "more significant" test statistic.  
3. We can use statistics as a part of our decision making processes, we can use statistics to learn more about the world around us, and we can use statistics to help guide other research in our field(s) of interest. 

## Chapter 14

1. We say a $p$-value is the "probability of the data under the null hypothesis" because it accurately reflects our construction of the hypothesis test. We assume the null hypothesis is true, and then our evidence (the data) tells us whether or not that is a reasonable assumption. There are other, advanced statistical methods unrelated to $p$-values that we can use to tell us something about "the probability of the hypothesis given the data", but a simple hypothesis test reulting in a $p$-value cannot tell us anything like that. 
2. Part (b.): Let $q$ represent the proportion of times a man successfully hails a cab on his first try in an average day. e.g. if a man takes 4 cab rides in a day, and he successfully hails a cab on his first try on only one of those rides, $q = 0.25$. Let $q_W$ represent the average proportion for all white men, and $q_B$ represent the average proportion for all black men. A possible null hypothesis for testing if black men have a harder time than white men when hailing a cab is: $H_0: q_{W} = q_B$, with corresponding alternative hypothesis: $H_A: q_{W} > q_B$. Another possible hypothesis concerns wait time: $H_0: w_W = w_B$, where $w_W$ is the mean wait time for a white man to successfully hail a cab, while $w_B$ is the mean wait time for a black man to successfully hail a cab. The corresponding alternative is: $H_A: w_W < w_B$. 
Part (c.): Let $c_{NY}$ denote the rate of cesarian births in the state of New York. The null hypothesis for tesing whether New York state has a higher rate of cesarian births is $H_0: c_{NY} = 0.28$, with corresponding alternative $H_A: c_{NY} > 0.28$. 
Part (e.): Let $r_N$ represent the response rate of patients on the new type of chemotherapy, and let $r_S$ represent the response rate of patients on the standard type of chemotherapy. The null hypothesis for testing if patients on the new drug have rates at least as good as patients on the standard drug is $H_0: r_N = r_S$ with corresponding alternative $H_A: r_N < r_S$. 

## Chapter 15 

1. Whether the $p$-value is 0.04999 or 0.05001, the probability that you observe data as or more extreme than what you did observe is still small. This may lead you to question the hypothesis and do further research, but it might not be evidence to reject or accept the null hypothesis outright. 
2. In the Michael Jordan experiment, MJ makes 7 of 7 shots, and Andrew makes 3/7 shots. The sample size is so small that we simply don't have enough information to state whether or not MJ is a better free throw shooter than Andrew. 
3. ~~No response~~
4. In a criminal trial, the null hypothesis is that the defendant is not guilty, and the alternative hypothesis is that the defendant is guilty. In a criminal trial, the $p$-value would be the probability of observing the evidence against the defendant under the assumption that the defendant is not guilty. So, a very small $p$-value (if you had one) would mean that is is very unlikely the defendant is not guilty given the evidence against them. 

