---
title: "What is a p-value anyway?"
subtitle: "Andrew Kimble, III"
date: "2017-07-21 17:00:00 CDT"
topic: "week7"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---
 

## Chapter 13

1. There was no need fore me to prove it because even though you provided strong evidence you still have to weigh all considerations in order to pick the road that will be very beneficial to you.
2. The difference between the two p-value groups are trivial because even though your p-value of p = 0.001 was very small you still might take the backstreets just so you can enjoy the ride or just have that extra minute to spare.
3. You can also use statistics to help improve accuracy for evidence when it comes to forensic science.


## Chapter 14

1.  we say the probability of the data under the null hypothesis instead of knowing the probalility of the hypothesis because you try to get the probability based from the null hypothesis, if there is no difference from your data your null hypothesis is rejected.

2b. The chance of an African American male hailing a taxi in New York City is less than a white male hailing a taxi in New York City.

2c. Due to 28% of the nation having Cesarean delivery birth, the chance of hospitals in New York State likely having a high average Cesarean rate is most likely.

2e. The chance of patients taking a new, less toxic type of chemotherapy having response rates at least as good as those on standard chemotherapy drug is less likely.


## Chapter 15 

1. Yes, it is true but unless you round the p-value of 0.049999 to 0.05 then your p-value would not be statistically significant.
2. The experiment resulted in a non-significant p- value because Michael Jordan shot 7 free throws and you have made 3 out of 7 free throws but in the result of your testing both men shot the same free throws so there wasn't any difference.
4. The connection between a criminal trial and a p-value is the null hypothesis might be if the person committed the crime, so if the p- value is less than 0.05 then it is statistically significant and there is a chance he or she did not commit the crime. But, if it is greater than 0.05 then you keep the null hypothesis.
